I'm here to sort of announce a sort of
special session that we have planned for
you guys today which is session 202
technology magical keynote and we
actually do something a little bit
different for WT what we're going to be
doing is we're in bjs is basically
talking about an application one of our
applications keynote and for many of you
are probably aware that in January of
this year we launched our own
presentation product which uses a lot of
maca Liston technology to do some
incredible work in terms of bringing
really high quality high production
values and ease of use to the act of
doing presentations and as an evangelist
at Apple I do a lot of presentations and
i can tell you i've enjoyed using this
tool this application every time for
every presentation I've done since
January so we wanted to actually have an
opportunity for the keynote team to sort
of tell developers about how they made
keynote happen and particularly which
technologies they adopted because I
think it's a very very interesting story
and you know so the really interesting
thing we have here is that we're going
to be talking about an application
rather than a technology at wwc now
there's 175 sessions many of those are
going to be talking about new
technologies technologies that have been
improved for Panther and you know it's
really specific down low level to
specific technologies and one of the
things that I encounter often was
working with developers is that it's
great to see the technology the API in a
presentation but many cases it's
difficult for you guys to see how that
technology actually unfolds in a real
living application so by talking about
an application allows us to show you
essentially technology in action the
technology actually doing what its
intended to do and add value to you know
what a user would be doing at using
software and then another point is
there's a tremendous opportunity in the
technology portfolio that's part of Mac
OS 10 for different technologies to
synergize for example you'll see in
keynote during the course of the
presentation how the type system and for
example courts to d there are 2d drawing
API go together to really create
incredible typography or how courts and
OpenGL can play together for interesting
transition
and just great looking application
content and I think the key thing that
we wanted to do is to help using an
application as an example to articulate
the possibilities that are behind every
technology that's available in Mac OS 10
because we've really sort of reset the
technology button when we move to Mac OS
10 because we brought together a lot of
brand new technologies that aren't
familiar to a lot of the developer
community and in many cases you have
your existing code basements tough tree
to see what the horizons of technologies
offer you and your users so why don't we
want to talk about keynote and I think
the main reason we want to do this is
because keynote is is very platform
compelling it's an application that uses
a lot of technologies and the same time
it's it's really simple it's really
powerful and it's kind of like Mac os10
marcos tim has got the power of UNIX at
the core it's also got a very simple
expression in terms of the Aqua user
interface and that combination is
fantastic one of the reasons keynote is
really able to do this is because
keynote uses the core technology that's
built into the operating system so the
keynote team was able to really sort of
think about how do they make great app
how do they make a great app that adds
value to what the user is attempting to
do with it rather than have to worry
about architect and graphics engines
architecting 3d transition effects you
know using their own engine and that's a
very important point as moving forward
as you guys really engage the platform
and develop your own sort of platform
compelling back those 10 applications is
where is where does the engineering that
Apple does every year that we improve
the operating system you know what
advantage does that give you in terms of
if you adopt that technology you know
what can you do somewhere else inside
your application to add value to user
experience because you don't have to
worry about the drudgery and venting
your own technology portfolio and then
you know when the key points is a lot of
the technologies that keynote uses are
very important technologies for Apple
there's things like cocoa courts to dr
new 2d drawing api QuickTime our
multimedia architecture and obviously we
spend a lot of time talking about OpenGL
and how that's a gateway to accessing
the power of the GPU and then also we're
going to talk a little bit about XML XML
as a way to you know contain document
information and then I think the key
point is these applications are these
these technologies are available for you
to use
well and then one of the other things we
wanted to do is essentially enable you
to learn a little bit from the
development cycle of an application
that's being brought up with all these
new Mac os10 specific technologies and
part of what the keynote presentation is
going to communicate in addition to
which technologies are adopted where in
keynote is actually provide areas where
hey the technology wasn't a perfect fit
and we had to do some working around we
had to do some something special to make
it work for application because many of
those cases are you know significant for
use developers as well as you adopt
those technologies so it's my pleasure
to invite Brad Vaughn the keynote
engineering manager to stage he's going
to take you through you know the
presentation thank you thanks Travis
Brad Vaughn can you manage the keynote
engineering team and we'll do a quick
demo of the application in case you're
not familiar with actually get a show
who's used the app and I know you've all
seen it because you're WWDC or looking
at keynote all day right but first i
want to emphasize the two things that
Travis kind of touched on that I want to
but I want to kind of makes teams for my
for my talk here today those are the
things that make keynote great are the
technologies that are available in OS 10
we'll talk about those in depth and and
the second point is that in some cases
the high level API is maybe the
out-of-the-box functionality isn't
exactly what you need I'll show you in
fact some cases i'll show you code that
explain how we worked around those
issues how we extended the available
frameworks etc so let's take a look at
the app so the first thing this is
keynote first thing you see is what we
call the theme chooser you have out of
the box 12 beautifully designed themes
are created by Apple designers each of
which contain nicely coordinated
background graphics fonts colors shadows
etc so let's create a new document with
this leather book theme for example
create the document the first thing you
see is on our main window it's very
simple you know
this is aqua this is standard UI
controls that everybody is used to
something that's easy for users to get
into and quickly manipulate their own
documents over here we have what's
called our slide navigator so i can
easily kind of move around my slides
organize my slide show like this it's
very simple got other views we can you
know edit outline give you got kind of
an a text oriented presentation but
let's take a look at this one I can
change masters let me show you some
feature we call alignment guides so this
is a bad example let me show you here so
you can see our alignment guides a
little better and you notice these
little yellow line snap these are
actually static alignment guides when I
create new objects on my slide I get
dynamic alignment guide so I can easily
manipulate my graphics going to get a
new alignment guide so I can Center
these guys if you do a lot of kind of
graphically rich presentations this is
very nice a couple other features make
another blank make a new slide and show
you our chart so charts and tables are
built into the application ought to go
out to a you know an external utility or
in other apps that create a chart so I
just click my chart button there I've
got a date editor and go in and now out
of my data live updates my histogram so
it's kind of a plot the growth control
of my chart I can you know move my
legend around resize etc over here is my
chart inspector so it gets kind of more
fine-grained control and I can pick from
several varieties of chart here's a pie
chart as you see you know the contents
of trade want to create text i create a
chart or create table it's all nicely
integrated with the the template that's
the style that I've chosen which in this
case is leather book so it's really it's
kind of hard to make a presentation that
that's ugly you have to do some work so
yeah so good you know a lot of control
over how I manipulate my chart there so
let's take a look at another feature
table it's as easy as clicking the table
button over here automatically switch to
my table inspector oh let's make a table
of two rows and i'll put some content in
there with simon i can't have all caps
the try a few shapes in there this will
invariably be in the wrong column but
I'll put it in there researches
microscope
ya missed what
ok
as I I can resize my column very fast
the graphics smoothly scale text wraps
and let's do a little build so as I do
my actual presentation as I'm showing
the slides I can build the content onto
the slide and we've got several options
for that so I'll pick my table and for
instance I this is my bills inspector I
can pick for instance a flip a flip
build we call it that would here's my
little preview this this would build the
entire table all at once I can also
deliver it say by row or by comp so
let's take a look at what it looks like
if I build this guy on by column one two
three columns very smooth finally well
let me show you next to last our export
formats we support QuickTime export so
you can generate a QuickTime movie that
contains all the transitions 3d build
cetera ship it off to a user on another
platform and they can share it we also
support PowerPoint export and PDF so let
me show you finally a sampling of some
of our 3d transitions this is a simple
kind of fade transition a push a move
these are all this is a set of 2d
transitions that we provide
out-of-the-box wipe transition and a
pivot finally a drops you drop one
flight over the other getting to the 3d
transitions that's called twirl this is
a large mosaic and most of these
transitions you can control no there's
all of the transitions you can control
their speeds several you can control
their direction perhaps they come from
the center from they move out or in
there's a slip of 3d flip horizontal 3d
flip and finally the cube
everybody's favorite so that's keynote
so we want to talk about the
technologies the things that make
keynotes great first we'll talk about
application frameworks keynote built on
cocoa talk about why we think Coco is a
great basis for your applications one
thing's Coco provides a very simple
high-level access to the text to the
text technologies to make go attend
great things you get from Atsui courts
etc we'll talk about courts you know
keynote really excels at creating
graphically rich presentations and we
get all that power from courts show you
some code that we use to manage images
in courts obviously OpenGL the examples
that just shows you great 2d and 3d
effects that we use OpenGL we'll talk
about some of the Kip support for OpenGL
as well rich media support that you get
from quicktime and you know and it's not
just about playing movies on slides in
quicktime we also use quicktime to
generate a QuickTime compatible output
finally we use XML as our file format
really excited about that there's been
some community support for our format
and I'll talk about the operating system
support that's there for XML so first
application frameworks when we chose
when we you know we sat down to decide
how we're going to start keynote the
main thing we want to do is kind of
emphasize the power that's in OS 10 the
graphical the power behind the graphical
technologies that are in there like
opengl quicktime accords so we wanted
first class integration with those
technologies with this framework we
choose a high level frame we're going to
be able to get the maximum out of each
of these technologies we want to be able
to grab powerful components from the kit
okay so we want to be able to you know
use a lot of these things on the box not
to reinvent the wheel for things like UI
components etc but we want the
components to be flexible and extendable
enough so we can you know tweak their
tweak the parameters trick tweak a few
things get the look and feel the
capabilities we want without having to
extend everything but we want to be able
to extend it and override certain
behaviors if we want to we want great
performance we don't want layers and
layers of software between us and you
know the application and the core
components the core technology to no end
that we want to use for instance opengl
we want to make sure we have very fast
access to opengl and ease of development
you know we started keynote started with
a small team limited amount of time as
I'm sure you know developers in the
audience are familiar with so it's
important to have the best tools the
best frameworks available to get our app
to market and for us Coco was a great
choice Coco contains high level access
to again the graphics capabilities of
graphic technologies that come with
those ten quarts OpenGL and QuickTime
with Coco you get the standard flexible
UI controls that everybody's used to in
the OS an operating system the Aqua user
interface and as aqua progresses of you
know new releases of Coco come out we're
kind of reaping the benefits of those if
you saw the Scott Forstall talk
yesterday the tab view is improving the
switch view is improving so we're going
to get those benefits NS image with Coco
gives you access to not only you know
native formats that ms image can decode
and display but also compatibility with
everything the QuickTime can do all the
image formats in QuickTime can display
complex use like NS OpenGL view as you
saw in my little build inspector was
getting a little preview that's an NS
OpenGL view for rendering OpenGL content
right within a Coco application and this
movie view for the same thing with quick
times rich media and a window one thing
you get with Coco the NS document
architecture this is something that
makes it easy to provide to your users
the kind of features that they expect
from a modern application right like
undo multiple documents Center running
apps multiple windows / document Coco
provides macros and classes that make it
very easy to localize your app provide
your app for multiple languages and with
Coco you're using mock oh you've got
great compatibility with the runtime
throughout the system and you've got NS
bundle the ability to load running code
executable code and resources into your
app in in keynote all our transitions
all our bills are 3d builds are I think
our exporters and our inspectors are all
loadable bundles so in theory people can
load new ones in freeze of development
we love Objective C Objective C and
object-oriented language very very
powerful dynamic runtime but it's simple
enough you can take you know it's kind
of it's got a kind of a small surface
area of specific features that are in
the in the language so you take a Java
programmer in assisi programmer it's a
very small learning curve to bring them
up to speed on objective c and this is
project builder should just a tool right
because it's not just project builder
now it's xcode looking forward to using
xcode quite a bit project builder a
full-featured integrated development
environment with features like indexed
code syntax coloring documentation
built-in source code management
integration and the other tools like you
know Malik debug sampler things that
lets you ship a high-quality application
so why we chose Coco first class
integration with the graphical
technologies that we really wanted to
highlight no f10 really was going to
make keynote a great application
powerful components things you can grab
use out of the box they're flexible
enough that you can know tweak them to
your desires and extendable enough that
you can tweak them even further that's
the breed tools like project builder and
now Xcode
so let's talk about specific features
that cocoa provides like cocoa text well
with OS 10 you really get capabilities
from several layers of the operating
system in courts you know anti-alias
text something we've all come to expect
now absolutely Apple type system for
Unicode imaging provides unicode
multiple input handlers styled text and
the typographic features that I'll
display in a minute here and what you
get from cocoa is just some of the
application level features like undo key
bindings you have things we don't use so
much in keynote like formatted text
input so let's look very quickly at some
of the text capabilities and you know
I'm starting with a blank slide because
you know click create a new text object
bring up the font panel you've got
access to all the fonts available in
system truetype postscript etc
I don't have much slider so I'm not
showing exactly how smoothly it can
resize but you know Santa Elias razor
sharp looks great we go to my text
inspector here in keynote save control
over simple things like alignment color
I also can manipulate the character
spacing this is all built into cocoa
nothing no code required here and you
have fine control over character spacing
within a certain range of text and
designers love this capability so if I
go my next slide I've got some
multi-line text I can control the line
spacing negative line spacing and talk
about ligatures so this is a example of
a ligature here's like which is just an
elegant way of combining characters it's
built into these fonts this is the Zap
fino font so T and H are actually one
glyph one character glyph when i type th
it combines it but you can also
manipulate those ligatures and this is
built into cocoa so if i turn off the
ligature on that combination changes the
look as I said this is effing I want to
show you something that's just kind of
cool VA in jepty know the words up you
know is one lick sure looks very hot of
course I turned it off I think it would
look so little boy this is all in cocoa
this is all free so again advanced
features with cocoa text kerning
character spacing unicode character sets
so I've got some kanji here in the
really nice hitachino font ligatures
there was one Cape 11 feature we needed
in keen on you've essentially already
seen it that wasn't supported in Cocoa
text and that's this kind of cascaded
stylesheet ok we wanted to be able to
let the user
pick a theme pick us pick a master slide
and it's got a certain design they get
those design attributes they make a
change then they may pick another theme
we want to preserve the style changes
that the user may let me show you how
that would work so user creates a new
show and they use the white theme type a
little text make an attribute change so
they've gone from plain text too bold
finish their presentation well White's
just not quite flashy enough for me
let's go to the crayon theme what we've
done is we've sure we've at we've
changed the background without of some
graphics also change the font of their
text add a little shadow in this case
but we preserve the attribute changes
that the user mates we've still got
bolded text and last word another
capability this gives the user is they
can kind of revert all all additional
changes all overrides that they've made
can be reverted out we'll just go back
to the standard style sheet so
continuing from the last example here we
are on the crayon theme the user goes to
menu and says reapply master to
selection and the overrides go away we
want to go back to the standard master
or cascaded style sheet set of
attributes cocoa text doesn't really
support this and here's a kind of
simplified diagram of the architecture
of the end of the cocoa texas and we
have enough tech vs which you type in
controls undo and key bindings and all
that stuff and as text container
controls where the text is drawn layout
manager manages putting the glyphs in
different positions and tech NS text
storage is your data store behind your
text this is the set of attributed runs
of text that the user sees now when a
user types in to NS text view or they
they take the menu and they say bold
what happens is the text view tells the
nsx storage set attributes in range so
in that case where the user made bold
they would say you know the weight is
bold the range is character 7 through 15
or whatever it would be that wasn't
going to quite do it for us that's a
flattened set of attributes we needed to
be able to say you know which attributes
existed on
after which ones were created by the
user so how we did this we extended the
NS text storage by creating a subclass
and astec storage is called a semi
concrete class when you make a subclass
event Aztec storage you're expected to
provide your own data storage in this
case it's on the bottom the attributed
string which is just an ounce mutable
attributed string that contains all the
attributes that the user sees both
inherited from the style sheet and added
by the user what we also added was this
master attributes dictionary this is the
set of attributes that existed in the
dictionary when the user created this
text so it would be the last example you
know the gill sans font with that
size-14 or something when you create a
subclass of enough text storage again
it's a semi concrete class you have to
provide the data storage you have to
override certain methods here's this is
a list of methods you have to override
string returns just a plain string with
no attributes attributed index effective
range tells me you know that at index
for I've got or an index seven and last
example I've got ten characters of text
that are bold replace characters and
range is what happens when the user
types or kaisa texas paste it in set
attributes and range again which I
actually covered last time was on the
last slide was just applying attributes
to a range of characters now what we
added in our subclass we have an
initializer that just takes the set of
styles that exist on the master slide we
have a method that returns weather and
overriding this excuse me so that is
used for menu menu enabling or menu
validation does this menu need to be
turned on is there an override can the r
user revert this this this drink reapply
master attributes which is what happens
when the user clicks that menu that's
basically where thats implement it is we
take the dictionary that exists we apply
it to the entire range of the string set
master attributes is kind of the money
method here what this guy does is he
looks at the existing set of master
attributes in the string
compares them to the new set so this is
this guy's called when so master
attributes is called when the user
changes the master slider changes the
cascaded stylesheet so we say for each
run of text reach effective range of
styled text does and attribute exists in
the old master if so let's let's replace
it with the attributes in the new master
that preserves the stuff that's been
changed the stuff that didn't exist in
the old master attributes list so Coco
text you have a great set of features
typography Unicode text out of the box
it just works with cocoa and the setups
kind of application level undo and key
bindings middle no op minimal amount of
coding to get at those features and
they're all supported in the UI you know
the standard menus for cut paste manage
kerning ligatures fonts etc just work
out of the box but as we all know after
watching some of these slides great
presentations are not built on text
alone all the graphical features you get
in keynote comes from quartz 2d very
quick overview of what you get with
quartz 2d path based drawing
vector-based drawing so we draw our
shapes with paths and they resize
perfectly and all that control of stroke
and dash settings good maps image
rendering it's based on PDF you can
actually have control over drawing PDF
documents or sections of PDF documents
or PDF clipart within your application
transformed I didn't know i'll show you
in the demo but rotation translation
scaling shearing etc and transparency
awesome alpha blending so again I'll
show let's take a look
there's the blank slate I'll just throw
a couple shapes on and these guys come
on with an image Phil let me look at my
graphics inspector I can change to say a
gradient fill is supported by courts I
can you know change my colors change the
angle make it so I opaque
it's very fast out of stroke various
dash styles and affect opacity here
change the order and here's some images
so image is very high quality but they
rotate very fast change opacity and
performance is fantastic ok so again
chords features path face drawing PDF
drawing we've gotten a shape with a
standard color and stroke in an image
where now I've added a gradient fill and
a shadow the thing is I mention about
shadows so what we wanted in keynote was
shadows that are a lot like what you get
from the menu in OS 10 for the windows
and didn't really have that we had to
actually add some code to do that the
good news is in Panther the shadow api's
are available so because hopefully we
won't have to do quite as much as we did
again back to the features anti-alias
text image drawing alpha blending and
great performance of courts too deep you
have a PDF based image imaging model the
same imaging model that sends
information to display the drawers what
you see is what sent to your printer
drivers for raster and post script
output color sync color syncing both to
the display into your output device and
on compatible hardware quartz extreme
for GPU accelerated window compositing
now what do we need in keynote we didn't
get from quartz we wanted professional
quality image manipulation as you may
know if you heard the keynote at
Macworld San Francisco it was designed
for Steve Jobs and he's using these very
very high quality images
multi megabyte and you can't we can't
sit around and wait while we're rotating
and resizing these images so
manipulation has to be fast but we also
have to quickly move its you know the
presentation that we have to quickly go
back and forth through slides well with
cocoa and start with quartz high-quality
resize is built in so here's an example
how you do it in in cocoa you just grab
a graphics context and set high image
and triple set and s image interpolation
high and quartz goes off and does you
know kind of more complicated scaling if
you're not using cocoa you can still do
this in core graphics to grab the
graphic support use a different flag
it's available now talking about image
manipulation when the user rotates or
moves and image around we want to be
able to we went we want the interaction
to be very very fast so what we do is we
cache a smaller representation of that
image you know so if the user is using a
50 megabyte tiff file will actually save
a smaller version if the users resizing
for instance now this is a kind of
abbreviated UML that our image view is
what the user actually sees and
manipulates on what we call the slide
canvas the image model in this in this
instance the the instance variable is
called my image that's come to canonical
image that the user brought in from the
finder or they they pasted so we're
keeping track of the original image but
in many cases and I'll show you where we
create this guy we have a cached image
that we use to render instead miss much
faster so on our canvas the user Mouse's
down we determine whether an image was
selected and tell it to dynamically
resize it's in that method when the
image view is told to dynamically resize
it determines whether the model has
changed enough that it's actually worth
doing we say if this image is you know
say in this case ninety percent scales
then we'll create a cash game we just
make a copy sock it away subsequent on
subsequent renders we'll just render the
cached image and this actually makes a
big difference in interaction
performance
another challenge so when creating
multi-page PDF as you see in this
example all these slides use I think
with the exception of the first one they
all use the same background image the
last to use the same you know piece of
clipart this calendar the the one and
eight or actually text so it looks
pretty good the the charts in this
example use an image fill so it's kind
of a repeating image when we generate
pdfs we want to make sure that you know
we're not sending this these images out
to PDF to our PDF stream multiple times
how do we do that well PDF supports this
optimization you write the image once
and use this X object reference and PDFs
will go back and read it out of the
original stream GG image ref supports
the capability let me show you how we
create BCG images again back to our uml
model the image model contains the
original NS image we've been stanch at
it from the finder or pulled it off the
clipboard or whatever we also keep track
of a CD image up uses the same data as
long as we use that CD image rep to
render will get this optimization our
PDF output so to create a CG image dress
you have to create a CG data provider so
you can create it if you've got enough
image if you have an in a bitmap image
rep which image rep in this example is
image rep is an NS bitmap image up we
just pull the bitmap data out tell the
data provider what the depth is and how
big the images create that provider hand
that off to cg image create cgm is great
again you tell it how big the image is
going to be how big you want to suck
actually how big you want to render it
the depth a couple other flags that
control you know the color spaces just
kind of the default flags here what the
alpha value is and when you want to draw
BCG image the CD image if a variable
that I've got here which is a CG image
ref to draw that you just draw up to the
graphic support the current graphics
context and tell it how big you want to
draw as long as you draw that to your
PDF output context you're going to get
this optimized output
so summarize quartz bridge to d
capabilities path based drawing PDF
model all available to you layered api's
if it turns out you're using cocoa or
whatever java and the API 0 aren't
available you've always got core
graphics which is the courts kind of
standard layer for it of api's and
phenomenal performance with a quartz
extreme now that's a 3d that was one of
our 3d transitions you know we all be
editing on a keynote slide canvases
courts but how do we get this core
graphics these courts objects up to the
screen in OpenGL so we can do these kind
of cinematic effects so there's there's
again the 3d effect we've also got the
2d effects so there's a drop and we can
not only apply these effects to a slide
transition from one side to another but
I've also objects that are going on to
the slide so there's a 3d text build a
little slip we can also build objects
off the slide so here's a scale
as you saw when I was creating my my
builds earlier I got a little preview in
my inspector so this is an NS OpenGL
view it's available in cocoa basically
drop this view onto your cocoa into your
cocoa application and off you go you're
your programming OpenGL actually a
really good way to get started with
OpenGL programming so in this case what
the user sees in this preview is exactly
what they're going to get when they go
to full screen mode how do we get the
courts 2d images and text and all that
path space shapes into OpenGL wees this
abstraction it's in the center here
called a textured rectangle so I'll walk
you through how we go from something
like an NF simich we grab data from the
image apply GL operations to it as a
textured rectangles look at the codes of
that the interface of this textured
rectangle it's not just one kind of blob
that we're manipulating an OpenGL we
actually in order to get the kind of
maximum maximum compatibility with
hardware that's available you in some
cases you want to chop your textures up
on power to boundaries so what we this
textured rectangle kind of abstracts the
fact that there are these disarray of
smaller textures that we may have
created and we also track the target the
thing that we're going to actually
render the textures to the way you
initialize this guy you in this case
there are several you know it's much
bigger ap oddness obviously you can
create it with a bitmap and when you
want to draw there's an API for drawing
all four corners if you're if you're
modelview matrix isn't transformed you
actually just want to specify exactly
where the texture is going to draw with
opacity now in a bitmap image rep the
data is actually rgba you know opengl
will render this stuff but the most
efficient way to do it is using a RGB so
this is just a very simple method that
swaps the high order and low order bytes
and very fast and now in with a RGB
we've got kind of the highest
performance
Malaysian of the textures on the
graphics card and we want to draw the
image this first page here shows how we
turn on the opacity support so we hand
off the GL blend method to GL enable
paths and flags of the GL blend function
and we apply the opacity using GL color
for F there's a i'm not actually not the
OpenGL expert but there's a there's a
session on OpenGL optimization where
they kind of address why that's
important that the image is pre
multiplied in order to render the
textures as I said we've got this you
know abstraction that hides the fact
that this thing's been chopped up into
several textures on power two boundaries
so we walk through the texture array and
blit it all out GL text cord to to DF
and GL vertex to us to draw at the
corners based on the offsets from the
original texture so we chopped it up and
we're keeping track of where the offsets
are turn off opacity was disabling
blending and release the target so
opengl you know we're not just using
opengl to do you know moving to do to do
our flips we're actually you know the
GPU is available we found a good way to
use it to accelerate to d effects and
accelerate course to the output with
cocoa you have these high-level
abilities like opengl view to do to do
previews to get started with opengl and
there's several level levels of api is
available with opengl that are all there
in OS 10 glute cgl we use in keynote to
manage the display and GL for the lower
level operations so the last graphical
technology will talk about its quick
time and I've got a little demo here
this is a a movie that's set to loop and
I've applied a 50-percent transparency I
think to this guy and I'll build a few
additional movies on every to these
movies comes on they've got their set to
a certain poster frame this is the the
frame we want to display when you first
see the object on the slide
I think you can see you know you've got
excellent frame rate while the builds
are happening and the so pacity and this
is really you know the power of quartz
extreme kind of work here so a quick
time you've got you know you're really
leveraging all the advantages that are
there within the system you've got all
the image formats and those are
available through NS image and Coco all
these sound formats all are you know the
sounds that we use in Cocoa kind of
treat them as movies we just play a
sound and obviously full motion video
and when I say you're leveraging the
power of QuickTime updates the cliq
QuickTime come out they supply new file
formats they they they support new image
formats or or movie formats and that
just works you know quicktime 63 came
out a few days a few weeks ago suddenly
keynote supports exporting 3gpp movies
so we can export a 3gpp movie of slides
and you know like a little slide show
preview on your cell phone the image
file types that are available on your
system so it's you know dependable
codecs and and what version of quicktime
are available but you can ask NS image
what image file types your supporters
returns a list of file extensions and
HSS file types so again the image
formats are available integrated into
NFS image and co co NS movie view you
can use to preview a movie and control
the playback and speed and scrub through
it flex and a very flexible extremely
flexible core API for not only you know
showing movies grabbing content from
from your from your media but also
export QuickTime movies so when you use
NS 0 NS movie gives kind of just a
simple look at how you can use NS movie
view to actually build some kind of a
small simple version of quicktime
the API Zener just start to start the
motion set the rate if you want to fast
forward or reverse through the movie you
can control volume and mute the movie
what we wanted in keynote is I pointed
out these movies I was building on
they're all set to a certain poster
frame so in this example the the
inspector the top slider controls the
poster frame that the user wants to see
when the movie comes on so you kind of
move this guy back and forth and you're
scrubbing through the entire movie let
me show you how you do that using NS
movie view the slider sends an action
called take poster frame from the slider
the slider value would be a percentage
you want to start at zero or go to 100%
all the way through the end of the movie
we determined you know the floating
value you know point five would be
halfway from the slider determine the
time offset within the movie that that
corresponds to that percentage
corresponds to and then set it on this
subclass of NS movie that you'd create
you say set poster time to that offset
till tell the movie to display that
offset obviously as the user scrub
through so i do believe i missed a
slight the implementation of those
methods oh yeah actually i didn't miss
the slide within the implementation of
steps poster time you would use
quicktime api set movie poster time
which takes a QuickTime movie and a time
value to set the poster frame so that's
a case where you're you know kind of
mixing the high level API for NS movie
view and the lower level API is a
QuickTime so summarize quick times
phenomenal compatibility with all these
image formats move media formats sounds
etc coco integration within us movie
view and NS image support the image
image formats and a rich comprehensive
set of AP is to control media playback
and export finally XML we love XML it's
really created kind of a community
already around keynote there are
applications available that manipulate
and use the pokeno 4matic
we think XML is a great way to encourage
innovation get other parties involved in
supporting your app encouraging use of
your application and one of the things
it's not that obvious is it it's really
good for development you can validate a
set of documents that you generate you
can generate these documents before your
apps complete you know you've got your
data model you've got your XML schema or
document type definition ready generate
a set of documents your app ought to be
able to handle very simple way to do
some testing validate the output make
sure that your archiving you're on
archiving code is actually generating
documents that conform to the standard
that you've specified for your XML what
do you know as ten core foundation has
several layers of XML support if you're
just using NF coder NS coder not
familiar is kind of the standard way of
serializing objects in cocoa and you can
tell NS coder to use an XML format the
standard formats binary you pass
transcoder this flag its property this
XML format then the output will be XML
and that property list format is defined
on the on the on the on some websites um
I think it's on ADC some place you have
within core foundation a high-level
parser which you just handed a document
or a stream of stream of XML text it
hands back to the structure called the
CF XML trees so you can then walk
through elements data and attributes for
each node construct your data model that
way or just maybe manipulate search for
data etc there's also a low-level parser
was kind of a sax type parser elements
are encountered of attributes are
encountered you can define callbacks so
the your code is called into then you're
going to create your data model that way
well for kino we use the low-level
parser you know the we encounter a slide
and we go off and create a slide but
when we generate xml we actually just
use immutable strength we just generate
this NS mutable string on the fly and
this is kind of the the class that we
to do that it's called a dom writer a
document object model writer so you
start an element you say here's what I
want to start something with that the
slide or a bullet point end it right
attributes like what color it uses
control formatting with indented could
increase in decrease in death and you
can also pass in the structure of this
this XML element similar to CF XML
element to create to write an actual
subtree all the way out to the string so
our file format is open the scheme is
available at techno 2067 there's already
third-party developer support their file
maker has an application that generates
and a library code that generates
keynote documents for D has the same
thing we think there are a lot of
possible applications you can obviously
pull data off the web pull data from
your enterprise data store generate
kiosks presentations with great you know
3d transitions migrate your legacy data
into our tables or build I'm sorry I
tables or charts and here's them I'm
going to actually give you a demo of the
40 presentation builder what this does
is it auu the user interacts with this
the few I to create a query it generates
the XML and the output of the
presentation I'll show it to you
so here's the UI they've set up this
kind of sample database of properties
you know they've got this I think they
include the club they include the code
to generate these are format but this is
just a sample database of for instance
real estate properties user can go pick
a buyer so the idea is I'm a real estate
agent i'm going to edit properties of
this sir and it attributes that aspire
what they want to spend where they want
to live and then create a new
presentation so it tells me i'm going to
show you all the properties in this
price range at this at this price in the
zip code and i want to open the new
presentation so the documents created
keynote opens i'll just play it
so now I'm a real estate agent I've got
this very simple simply created little
kiosks that I can show my my client has
been sitting there with me for three
minutes they get the idea yeah the
slides please thanks so xml great for
building a community around your
application it's really great for
development you know validate your
documents generate your documents before
your apps even ready to generate your
documents and they're supporting in core
foundations for several levels of XML
usage so keynote as we develop the app
we found the Coco was the best framework
for us we made great use of the cocoa
text capabilities to make it very simple
to get us the the very powerful
technology that's available we use
quartz for creating beautiful
graphically rich applications or
presentations opengl for 3d cinema
cinematic effects as well as to the
effects quicktime we generate QuickTime
movies we display QuickTime movies we
have great control over the QuickTime
movies that are in the presentation an
XML again an open file formats that you
can really build support around so what
can you get out of this now all these
technologies are available the modern
operating system make use of the
technologies if one way of getting at
the feature set you want doesn't work
there's probably another right set of AP
is and they're all extensible first-rate
tools available on the operating system
take the people you've gotten your
organization I look forward to seeing
your app thanks a lot
[Applause]
so what I'd like to do is just go
through the roadmap of the remaining
graphs Imogen related sessions starting
two morrow morning and Wednesday in the
marina we have image capture update what
we're going to do is talk about the
api's they're available in the system
that handle both digital cameras and
also scanners so if your applications
need to import or bring graphics in from
the real world into the virtual world
and tighter computer this is the
architecture and the api's are going to
want to know about later in the day on
Wednesday we have vertex programming
with OpenGL a big theme for graphics and
imaging this year this track this year
at Apple is leveraging the GPU to do
exciting things and with vertex
programming we're going to talk about
essentially how to use the GPUs ability
to transform geometry to do interesting
geometrical transformations because
there's a you know a lot of interesting
effects and complex geometry that you
can generate using the GPU then we're
going to go into a color sync update and
we're going to talk about a lot of the
new developments in color sync and again
this year as evidenced by information
and the key code the QuickTime session
this morning the sort of QuickTime
overview where there's been actually a
behavior change inside the system with
regard to color management obviously in
the newer API is inside the system we've
been building color management
automatically into the platform so for
example courts to d also cocoa or very
color management aware but a lot of
applications that leverage you know
carbon apps that leverage like QuickTime
image image importers were not handling
profiles correctly so we're continuing
to build out the support for color sync
by making now QuickTime more color sync
aware and this session we'll talk about
that amongst other things relating to
color management we have a session
they'll talk about quartz 2d and depth
if you liked what you saw in this
presentation with regard to the graphic
capabilities of keynote and you for
example are using may be quick trois or
key API in your application this is
number 207 on Thursday in the morning
it's going to be where you want to go to
learn about chords 2d then we're going
to have a very interesting session which
is too late it's sort of the cim
onion session to vertex programming and
this is fragment programming and this is
doing / essentially per pixel operations
filters if you will on using the GPU and
this is a very very interesting session
I have to say this is probably my
favorite session of the grant and
imaging track just because the
capability of doing per pixel operations
on the GP is still unlimited right now
and now the advent of programmable
hardware it's sort of a really
interesting time in computer graphics so
that's going to be thursday at 1030am
then another key session if you're an
OpenGL application and you want to learn
how to optimize your application or your
beginning opengl programmer and you want
to learn how to do the right things the
first time you want to come to 29 opengl
optimizations and this is really going
to focus on running a lot of information
about the fast path so that we put into
mac OS x opengl because it's interesting
our opengl stack is optimized and tuned
in certain ways that once you put your
application on those fast path you're
going to get unbelievable performance so
that's 29 on thursday is going to go
over that and then we have to 10 mac OS
10 printing update and it's going to
talk about a lot of the new developments
and mac OS 10 printing we're actually
going to talk about one exciting one
which is the ability for the system to
convert postscript into PDF now which is
a new Panther feature and that has
significant ramifications for people and
printing and imaging so it's an
excellent session to attend then we have
to 11 which is introduction to court
services this is our first session on
Friday and this session is going to talk
about essentially the parts of the
courts architecture which do not
actually draw anything these are the
parts that control and manage displays
so this is an important session if you
have a full screen application or you
have an application that needs to find
out what the display environment is
because there's a lot of api's of
developers and had trouble finding and
understanding how to use it we're going
to talk about in this session and then
we have on to 12 hour
hardware partners API coming this year
to talk about essentially the latest
techniques you can do to do the
interesting visual effects using
programmability and and their product
that radeon 9700 so that's a session 2
12 cutting-edge opengl techniques we
have a partially related session if
you're an application developer you
might want to check out the mac and
accessibility session where we're going
to be talking about how to make your
applications accessible the users with
disabilities it's important session for
for anyone who develops an application
to attend because there's a large
audience out there who through simple
changes in your application you may be
able to reach new customers who happen
to have a disability then finally we
have our the main opportunity for you
guys to give us your feedback and let us
know what you thought of the sessions
what you like what do you want to see
inside the ls essentially you know let
us know what we need to do to continue
to involve Mac os10 is the most
innovative and graphically powerful
operating system on the planet and
that's the feedback forum which is in
our traditional slot friday at 5pm so
thank you very much for attending the
session appreciate it
[Applause]
you